How do you use a parallel port as a network port?	Over Parallel Line Interface Protocol (PLIP)
How do you use USB or RS-232 as a network port?		Over Point to Point Protocol
How is ethernet rated?	10Base-T, 100Base-T, etc
What are network hardware exists besides ethernet?		Token Ring, LocalTalk, Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI), High-Performance Parallel Interface (HIPPI), Fibre Channel
What are some wireless protocols?	802.11a, 802.11b, 802.11g, 802.11n
What are good cable ratings?	Category 5 (Cat-5), Cat-5e, and optical cable
What is a layer 2 network device?	A hub or switch
What is full-duplex?		Data can be sent and recieved simultaneously.
What is the difference between a hub and switch?	Hubs are half-duplex and broadcast all packets. Switches are full-duplex and send packets only to proper destinations.
Where does packet error correction occur?		Link, internet, and transport layers
What is a network stack?	A family of protocols that wrap and unwrap data in frames.
What are the four network layers in TCP/IP?		Link, Internet, Transport, Application
What are alternative protocol stacks to TCP/IP?		NetBEUI, AppleTalk, IPX/SPX
Descripe Internet Protocol.	Layer 2 protocol with an associated IP address. Packets may arrive out of order or corrupted or not reach their destination.
What does ICMP stand for?	Internet Control Message Protocol
Describe ICMP.		Used for sending error codes for service availablitiy. Modifies IP packet and returns to sender. Generated by the ping program.
What does UDP stand for?	User Datagram Protocol
Describe UDP.		Unsophisticated layer 3 protocol that doesnt check packet order or delivery. Can be faster and is suitable for DNS, NFS, and streaming protocols.
What does TCP stand for?	Transmission Control Protocol
Describe TCP.		Transport layer protocol that creates full connections with error checking and many other features. Useful for transferring large amounts of data and is suitable for SMTP, HTTP, and FTP
How many addresses does IPv4 and IPv6 support?		4 billion, and 2^128
What is SLAAC?		Stateless address auto-configuration. A feature of IPv6 similar to DHCP
What type of addressing is independent of the network protocol stack?	Hardware addressing in low-level Ethernet frames
What are the three types of addresses important for TCP/IP?		hardware address, numeric IP address, text-based hostnames
What is 'MAC' in MAC address an abbreviation for?		Media Access Control
What does a MAC address look like?		6 groups of 2-digit hexadecimal numbers separated by colons (6 bytes)
How does DHCP consistently assign the same IP addresses to computers?	It bases the configuration off of MAC addresses.
Where in /dev are the network devices?		There are no entries in /dev. Network utilities work with them directly.
How many bits wide are IPv4 and IPv6 addresses?		32 and 128
What converts between MAC addresses and IP addresses?		ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) in IPv4 and NDP (Neighbor Discovery Protocol) in IPv6
What is a broadcast query?		A message that goes out to all computers on a local network and asks the computer with a given IP address to identify itself.
What does an IP address look like?		four decimal numbers separated by periods
How can you discover a computers IP address?		ifconfig
What are the two parts that an IP address breaks into?	network address and computer address
How does a computer communicate outside it's local network?		With a router (layer-3 switch)
What does an IPv6 address look like?	8 groups of 4-digit hexadecimal numbers separated by colons (16 bytes)
How can an IPv6 address be compressed?		One or more adjacent groups of four zeros may be omitted.
What is a subnet mask?		Also refered to as a network mask or netmask. Its a number that identifies the parts of an IP address - binary 1's for the network portion and 0's for the computer portion.
What does a netmask look like?	Very similar to an IP address. The values 255 and 127 are very common because they represent all binary 1's.
What are two types of notation for netmasks?		Dotted-quad notation and CIDR notation.
What is CIDR an abbreviation for?	Classless Inter-Domain Routing
What does CIDR notation look like?	An IP address followed by a slash followed by the number of leading bits that belong to the network portion.
What is a Class D address used for?		multicasting
What is a Class E address used for?		reserved for future use
What are addresses that begin with 127.x.y.z?	loopback or localhost
How do you broadcast across a particular network?		Set all the machine bits to 1 in the IP address.
What address do routers usually block?		255.255.255.255 - the ultimate broadcast address
Give the range and reserved private addresses for Class A	  1.0.0.0 - 127.255.255.255 and 10.0.0.0 - 10.255.255.255
Give the range and reserved private addresses for Class B	128.0.0.0 - 191.255.255.255 and 172.16.0.0 - 172.31.255.255
Give the range and reserved private addresses for Class C	192.0.0.0 - 223.255.255.255 and 192.168.0.0 - 192.168.255.255
Give the range and reserved private addresses for Class D	224.0.0.0 - 239.255.255.255 and none
Give the range and reserved private addresses for Class E	240.0.0.0 - 255.255.255.255 and none
What's to prevent two computers from having the same IP address?	A trusted authority assigns non-private addresses. Anybody can use the reserved private address spaces.
What happens when a packet is sent to an address in the reserved private space?	Routers normally drop these packets.
T/F The reserved private adresses can only be used for private networks.	False. Private addresses can be used behind NAT. This is how most homes and businesses without a private network connect to the Internet.
What is the IPv6 equivalent to IPv4 private addresses?	site-local addresses
What do site-local addresses begin with?	fec, fed, fee, or fef
What IPv6 addresses should not be routed?		link-local addresses
What do link-local addresses begin with?	fe8, fe9, fea, or feb
What is NetBEUI's addressing method?	machine names, no numeric addressing
What is AppleTalk's addressing method?		two 16-bit numbers
How do you convert the bits in an IP address and netmask to the bits in a broadcast address?		Change all the bits in the IP address to 1's where there are 0's in the netmask.
What are the two parts to a hostname?		A machine name and a domain name.
T/F Domain names are equivalent to the network portion of an IP address.	False
What are the endings of Internet addresses (.com, .edu, .org) called?	TLD (top level domains)
What are below the TLDs in the Internet domain hierarchy?	subdomains
What are some examples of invalid domain names? Why would you use these?	.example, .invalid, .localhost, .test, .example.com, .example.net, .example.org; to prevent name conflicts with fake domains
What is DNS?	Domain Name System, distributed database of computers which convert between IP addresses and hostnames
T/F Every domain must maintain at least one DNS server.	False. There must be at least two to redirect DNS queries to other DNS servers
Which programs should you use in place of the deprecated nslookup?	host and dig
T/F host's interactive mode allows you to perform a series of DNS queries.	False - host does not have an interactive mode
Does the host command take a hostname or an IP address as its argument?		It will take either.
T/F dig is more flexible than host.		True
What command lets you lookup information on a domain as a whole?		whois
whois -H		omit lengthy legal disclaimers
What can you use in place of DNS?	/etc/hosts
T/F Entries in /etc/hosts have the hostname followed by the IP address it resolves to second.	False, opposite of /etc/networks
T/F localhost can be omitted from /etc/hosts.	True but non-standard
What might appear after the hostname in /etc/hosts?	hostname aliases without the domain
What is the biggest drawback to using /etc/hosts?		It is a purely local file.
What is NSS an abbreviation for?		Name Service Switch
How do you adjust the name service to check dns before local files?	Edit the "hosts: files dns" line in /etc/nsswitch.conf
What are some examples that can be configured by /etc/nsswitch?	Windows NetBIOS name resolution; LDAP; passwd, shadow, group authentaication and management.
What is LDAP and abbreviation for?	Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
What is in the /etc/networks file?	similar to /etc/hosts but applies to network addresses.
T/F Entries in /etc/networks have the network name followed by the IP address it resolves to second.	True, opposite of /etc/hosts
What address identifies a specific program on a remote server?		A network port
What protocols are port numbers a feature of?	UDP and TCP. Not ICMP
How do client ports work?	The OS can assign client port numbers dynamically. One computer can run several instances of a single client that do not compete for the same port.
What is a privileged port?		Any port number less than 1024. They may only be accessed by root.
What significance is there to distinguishing between privileged and unprivileged ports?	It used to be the case that clients could be confident that privileged ports were only configured by the system administrator and thus trustworthy.
What file maps port numbers to names?		/etc/services
What is the format of an entry in /etc/services port mappings?		[name]   [port#]/[tcp|udp]
Port 20/21 - Protocol? Name? Servers?		TCP; FTP; ProFTPd, vsftpd
Port 22 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP; SSH; OpenSSH, Dropbear
Port 23 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP; Telnet; in.telnetd
Port 25 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP; SMTP; Sendmail, Postfix, Exim, qmail
Port 53 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP/UDP; DNS; named (BIND), dnsmasq, djbdns
Port 67 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		UDP; DHCP; dhcpd (ISC DHCP), dnsmasq
Port 80 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP; HTTP; Apache, Roxen, thttpd
Port 110 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP; POP-3; Dovecot, Qpopper, popa3d
Port 111 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP/UDP; Portmapper; NFS, NIS, RPC-based services
Port 113 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP; auth/ident; identd
Port 119 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP; Network News Transfer Protocol (NNTP); InterNetNews(INN), Diablo, Leaf-node
Port 139 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP; NetBIOS Session (Windows file sharing); Samba
Port 143 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP; Interactive Mail AccessProtocol (IMAP); Dovecot, Cyrus IMAP, UW-IMAP
Port 161 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		UDP; Simple NetworkManagement Protocol(SNMP); Net-SNMP
Port 177 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		UDP; XDMCP; XDM, KDM, GDM
Port 389 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP; LDAP; OpenLDAP
Port 443 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP; HTTPS; Apache, Roxen
Port 445 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP; Microsoft Directory Services (DS); Samba
Port 465 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP; SMTP over SSL/URLRendezvous Directory(URD); Sendmail, Postfix, Exim, qmail
Port 631 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP; Internet Printing Protocol (IPP); Common Unix Printing System (CUPS)
Port 993 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP; IMAP over SSL; Dovecot, Cyrus IMAP, UW-IMAP
Port 995 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP; POP-3 over SSL; Dovecot, Qpopper, popa3d
Port 5900+ - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?	TCP; Remote Framebuffer (RFB); OpenVNC, TightVNC, TigerVNC
Port 6000-6007 - Protocol? Purpose? Servers?		TCP; X Window System; X.org-X11, XFree86
What must happen before network hardware can be correctly detected?		Network module must be loaded. modprobe tulip
List three dhcp linux clients.	pump, dhclient, dhcpcd
What is the automatic periodic renewal of IP addresses called?		DHCP lease
On RedHat and Fedora, what file and what config line is used to enable DHCP?	/etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-interface, BOOTPROTO="dhcp"
On Ubuntu, what file and what config line is used to enable DHCP?		/etc/network/interfaces, iface eth0 inet dhcp
On RedHat, in the ifcfg-interface file, what lines are needed for static IP configuration?	IPADDR, NETMASK, NETWORK, BROADCAST, GATEWAY
What programs can you use to set set static IP configuration?	ifconfig, route
Besides ifcfg-interface, what other file may contain the gateway address?	/etc/sysconfig/network/routes
Where are DNS servers specified?		/etc/resolv.conf
What line in resolv.conf specifies a DNS server?	nameserver [IP-address]
What else besides the nameserver is resolv.conf used for?	setting a local domain
How do you bring up a network interface on SysV?		ifconfig [interface] up [ip-address] netmask [mask]
How do you set the default gateway on SysV?		route add default gw [ip-address]
How do you display information about a network interface?	ifconfig [interface]
What program can you use to diagnose dropped packets?		route -n
What does 127.0.0.1 represent?	localhost
What is the route command's syntax?		route {add | del} [-net | -host] target [netmask nm] [gw gw] [reject] [[dev] interface]
What are the -net and -host options for route?	They force how route should interpret the target.
What is the reject option for route?	It blocks all traffic destined for the target.
T/F The route command permanently changes network config files.	False. Routing must be configured manually.
How do you enable packet forwarding?	echo "1" > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward. To set permanently, put "net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1" in /etc/sysctl.conf or "IP_FORWARD 1" in /etc/sysconfig/sysctl
What are some GUI network configuration tools?	Fedora and RedHat use system-config-network and Suse uses YaST.
What higher level commands make use of ifconfig and route to quickly enable/disable the network?	ifup, ifdown
What are three ways to configure a hostname?		Add an entry to the DNS server, add the hostname to remote systems' /etc/hosts file, run the hostname program
Where do programs look to determine the hostname?	NIS uses the domainname command, DNS uses the dnsdomainname command, others look in /etc/hostname or /etc/sysconfig/network
What is it called when a DSL modem uses PPP? What are two ways to fix the problem?		PPPoE, either purchase a broadband router or install a PPPoE client.
What are five common commands to troubleshoot the network?	ping, traceroute, tracepath, netstat, tcpdump
How do you test the delivery of 5 ICMP packets? What if there is no limit?		ping -c 5 [ip or hostname], use Ctrl+c to terminate
What does it mean if ping works for an ip address but not the hostname?		There is a problem with DNS
What does the traceroute program do?	It sends a series of three test packets to each computer between the source and target
traceroute -n		display ip-address instead of hostname. may be faster by avoiding DNS lookups
What kind of meaningful information does traceroute give?		Variance in response times, intercontinental links (or any large distances), overloaded router that drops packets
T/F Some routers may block traceroute data.	True. A couple lines of output may be all asterisks but everything else seems fine, or there are only asterisks after a certain point but tools like ping still work.
What are the differences between traceroute and tracepath?	Tracepath produces more detailed output for each test packet but there are fewer options than traceroute.
netstat -i		--interface, similar to ifconfig
netstat -r		--route, routing table similar to route command
netstat -M		--masquerade, IP masquerading features of NAT
What does NAT stand for?	Network Address Translation
When is IP masquerading useful?		Hiding a network behind a single IP address stretches limited IPv4 addresses.
netstat -p		--program, info about programs using network connections - not always successful
What does netstat display without any options?		open ports and the systems to which they connect
netstat -a		--all, displays ports that servers may open to listen on in addition to those already open
What is a packet sniffer?		A program that intercepts network traffic and then logs or displays them.
What information does tcpdump give you?		Data in raw form. Helps spot problems in protocol headers.
T/F Tcpdump should be run as root.	True. Ordinary users do not have permission.
T/F Tcpdump output may be longer than 80 characters.	True. You may want to use a pseudoterminal.
T/F The number of lines that tcpdump displays is controlled by the -n option or Ctrl-D.	False, it is -c and Ctrl-C just like ping.
tcpdump -A		ascii output
tcpdump -D		interfaces that tcpdump can listen on
tcpdump -n		numerical addresses
tcpdump -v		verbose, up to -vvv
tcpdump -w		write packets to a specified file
When can you use telnet to debug network protocols?	To test if a server is running on a well protected network.
What programs can you use to test network speed?	ftp get or ftp put to test download/upload on files that are at least several hundred kilobytes in size
What is always prefered to telnet?	ssh
